All right, hopefully we get some
data from somewhere, right?
So we're not just making this up.
So there's a Open Brewery DB.
If you don't drink that's fine, awesome.
You should totally make a library app or
something like that,
there's open library, this is really
just for demonstration purposes.
But yeah,
let's go by city San Diego, right?
And we're in Minneapolis right now,
so we'll do that.
So in our connected callback,
we're gonna do if not this breweries and
this may be a place where we can
initialize too and just say like,
if this breweries doesn't
exist then set to zero.
But this fetchBreweries,
we're gonna go fetch some breweries,
right?
So we need to make a fetchBreweries, okay.
So async cuz fetch, right?
We're gonna async from our fetchBreweries
and knew we wanted to do that.
So we're gonna do here and then, so
we need to do const
response equals fetch and
then we're gonna go get breweries but
we wanna go to Minneapolis and mini.
No m, am I close?
>> You got it.
>> I got it.
My [LAUGH] Midwesterner figured it out.
Okay, here we go.
And then what do we do?
We actually just want the JSON response,
so equals, but
we're gonna do away that one and
then we're going to await
response.json cuz it's a promise.
And then we say this breweries
equals JSON response
then we get a JSON response,
then we will do that.
This should maybe do it,
let's see what's going on.
No, it did not, let's see.
Cuz I set breweries.
Let's see here.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Okay, yeah, we could do that.
If not breweries that length, right?
Cuz we know we'll have breweries and
there you go.
I got 20 breweries here in town hopefully.
And okay, this is kinda cool.
If you go to a new town you
can get some breweries.
Check them off your list but wouldn't it
be great to check them off your list or
do something like that.
One other thing we could do
is also add a loading, right?
Type Boolean and
then this would be something
we'll do this stuff
loading true before and
then they start loading false, right?
Then down here,
we could do some cool stuff, right?
So we could do whatever we
want to do here we could,
we could really nest
it as much as we want.
But we could do maybe,
I kinda wanna put it down here, right?
So this.loading,
if this dot loading then html p, whoa,
we're gonna just return html loading
[INAUDIBLE] that otherwise do nothing,
all right?
Lets see if that kind of,
it's not working.
But maybe if we can trick it by messing up
the URL here [LAUGH] still loading, right?
It's just gonna be loading forever.
It's just the internet's too good
here in the Frontend Masters studio.
We're here, we're fetching from an API.
We're getting some stuff,
we're doing if it's loading thing,
there's another way you could do this
in line, you could also do up here.
If this.loading and
then you could instead return here, right?
So and then I basically just return
the same thing I just returned,
might be a more efficient way so you never
actually get to the loading, you never
get less if statements in your template
is kind of better just in general.
And that might be more, yeah [INAUDIBLE].
Okay, cool.
Well, we got that step in and so
there's a million things we can do.
But let's just add a visited state, right?
Cuz that's what I want to do, right?
I wanna keep track of things I've
been to and check them off and
make sure I'm going to the right
places when I visit a new town.
So what we wanna do is we're probably
gonna have to go down here and for
every brewery, right?
We're in, we have a brewery name, right?
But we probably need a button in here and
it's very clear view button and
then visited or something, right?
Like a visited button and
we'll probably see that over here.
Looks awful, we can solve that,
we know how to style things.
So, but one thing we might wanna
keep track of, how many we visited,
stuff like that.
So let's get this button
working first though.
So button, right?
What do buttons do?
You click them and
then they do something, right?
And so, you're gonna just go to
this.togglevisitedstatus and
then we'll pass the brewery
into that just cuz you wanna
know which brewery you're going to.
You could do a brewery ID if you want but
we're basically just toggling
the brewery status in.
I have not closed something and
it's very, okay, I need to close that.
Okay, cool.
And here, down here,
we'll just do it after
the render function,
toggle visited status and
then expects a brewery and
then we're going to this.breweries,
this.breweries map or
map through them all.
We'll find every brewery,
if the brew goodness code completed,
you're in the way if the brewery equals,
so we're gonna have to
name this something else
cuz we're using brewery to update, right?
That's you click down on button,
you wanna update a brewery.
And so, we're gonna look through all the
breweries or map through all the breweries
and if that brewery equals the brewery
update, awesome, then we have work to do.
So if that's true then we're going to
basically splat out the whole brewery and
then what we wanna set visited
which is kind of a new attribute.
We're inventing this,
we're hooking into the thing and
we're saying visited does
equals not brewery.visited.
So that will be true on our one but
false on everything else.
And then we need to do the false case and
then we're just gonna return the brewery.
And let's see if my code
formatter kicks in.
Once it's so mad at me, let's see,
I messed up that's why he's mad at me.
Okay, and then brewery is not defined,
I thought it was.
>> Your [INAUDIBLE]
seen instead of equally
>> Thank you, appreciate you.
Okay, but it's still mad
that brewery is not defined.
Let's see where does it think.
Let's see, maybe I can do that.
Maybe I can do trick it to do this.
All right.
>> Here there's parenthesis there
at the end of brewery [INAUDIBLE].
>> You're saying.
>> You're just mapping Boolean right now.
>> Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah.
All right, so there, thank you.
And now I need to close all
that because it's done.
Great, okay, so now we can say visited,
unvisited but maybe we'll, it's good but
we need to maybe fix our
button text a bit [LAUGH].
So we can say like,
this.brewery.visited?mark
unvisited, right?
So and then otherwise mark visited.
This is why JavaScript is
winning [LAUGH] the world, okay.
Here we go, we got this,
we're gonna just kinda keep formatting
to make my OCD happy and
then we're gonna close that and
then we're gonna close.
I don't know where that guy's coming from.
Okay, that's the map.
Okay, cool.
And let's see what's happening,
we still messed up our URL.
No, that's fine but
what is this guy about?
Okay, okay.
This is a weird bit about when
you do a function inside of here.
Okay, when you want to pass the brewery,
you kinda have to do the anonymous
function and then pass that through.
Okay, let's see what's the browser mad at,
undefined proc cannot
read property visited.
Okay, so
it must really hate that we did that.
That brewery visited,
we'll just do like [INAUDIBLE].
>> Maybe not on this, just brewery.
>> Just brewery, you're right, okay.
So now we can mark these as visited,
we have visiting and
then we can actually go up here and
instead of just doing the total count,
right?
Of breweries, we could just say,
man, let's set up some variables.
[LAUGH] total visited equals
this.breweries.filter.b dot
visit whoa, b.visited,
we'll just do that and
then dot length, right?
And then we'll do the opposite for
total unvisited.
B not.
B.notvisited [SOUND] okay,
and then that's fine.
Then here I'm going to say total
unvisited and total visited.
Okay, three remaining.
Great, so we have visited zero but
now we visited one,
we visited two, visited three.
So we can't get a reactive
context building, right?
Looks terrible,
does not [LAUGH] quite fit our,
we're not gonna make the millions of
dollars we hope from this application.
But so far we're kind of
being able to kinda build out
an application that goes and
fetches JSON from somewhere and
then is able to pipe that into
kind of a reactive little context.
Any questions or should we keep going?
Yes.
>> This might be premature,
you're welcome to [INAUDIBLE].
>> Sure.
>> it's someone who's deeply familiar with
react and is always looking to cut out
libraries, the syntax that
we just saw [INAUDIBLE] app,
as you say very similar to much of
how you would implement this and
especially class component style react.
>> Yeah.
>> The kind of one piece that's in my
head, missing in the puzzle is that kind
of state management and the kind of the
unidirectional data tree and react offers.
Are there nascent solutions for
that in the kind of web components world,
are there?
>> Yeah.
>> Methods of, yeah.
>> Like a global state manager?
>> Exactly, yeah,
[CROSSTALK] ways of yeah,
relaying data up to some centralized
store that then propagates that into
a bunch of web components
at all places on the DOM.
>> Yeah, total, so
we're going back to our buddy lead.dev.
Right now and this kind of gets
into the FAQ sort of portion of it,
but right now reactive context is like
BYO, bring your own reactor contests.
And that is good just cuz you can go
wild [LAUGH], as wild as you want.
But there's a few things happening.
So in the documentation here for lead.dev.
So it has this thing called a reactive no,
my gosh, let me see here,
I might need to go to the labs because
I think it's a new experimental thing.
Let me see it's called a reactive
controller, there we go.
A reactive controller and
it's sort of sounds like it sounds but
you build a controller that has state and
then you,
like this resize controller that tells
the size I guess I should zoom in here.
So you have the resize controller and
then it returns the text size or whatever.
And that is sort of how
they're solving it,
you set up these reactive controllers and
then you just basically not
quite the use syntax but
the new class,
you say new resize controller to observe
this reactive piece of
state somewhere upstream.
Web Components not this one but
the CG [INAUDIBLE] link to fiber lab.
Boy, Web Components cg,
that's my group.
The Web Components community group, again,
we're not official W3C or
TC39 in JavaScript case.
We can't propose elements,
we can't propose things but
the people who do and can propose things
are working in this group [LAUGH]
to kind of see it by people before
things get put out in the world.
And one thing they are looking at
is a official context protocol.
Benjamin works at Adobe right now
if I remember that correctly and
there's some goals and
non goals but basically you create
context somewhere and
then you can dispatch that through events,
sort of event driven context manipulation.
And then you need to consume
that reactive controller or
that reactive context as well.
So I think if you dispatch the event and
get the logger context
then you have the logger disposer and
you have this logger,
yeah, this logger gets sent to
the value of the context event.
So.
Not super clean but again this is sort of,
Web Components likes to build
out the primitives that you build
the nice looking thing on top of.
So this would become more
the browser level way to do it and
then you layer on a nice
new emit API above that.
Yes.
>> Someone in chat mentioned
reactive controller and
lit element
>> Yeah, that's what I was talking about
here so this reactive controller, this
mouse controller example is pretty good.
So you grab this mouse controller,
the mouse controller looks a bit
like this, it connects to a host and
then watches the mouse move but
it stores some data about itself or
in broadcast this data or
that data is in there.
And then mouse is that controller and
then you have the mouse position.
So the data store is happening upstream
and then you are the data creation or
whatever is happening upstream and
you're just kind of using object, that so.
Yeah, and again, this goes into
that conversation of why would
you use a library because they
have some of the problems solved.
And I've seen a couple other things
like fast was using it interesting way
of using dependency injection.
It was just a tweet and
then it vanished but
it was sort of this idea,
you can create a reactive context and
then inject it or store and
then inject it in your component and
start using it or
committing to it and stuff like that.
Yeah, so this stuff exists and this is why
maybe you wanna use the framework just so
you can kind of get some of
the benefits of using this stuff.